>> Anjana Vakil: So in our next exercise,
we are going to revisit
our diamond pattern.
And this time we're not gonna ask,
[LAUGH] we're just gonna test it,
cuz we don't need to visually inspect
the result of a pure function.
We know if we give it the same inputs,
it's always gonna give us the same output.
So we already figured out
our impure rendering bit.
We don't care about that anymore,
that's on the outer edge,
we don't need to actually see the that.
We just need to make sure
the computer verifies it is correct.
So in this case we're just
running some tests, and
these tests are using a couple
of new pattern functions.
So, we have our diamond pattern,
which takes in two different colors,
maybe different, but
two color arguments and a width.
And what we're gonna do here,
is use closure to define new higher
order functions that lock in
some of the values, okay?
So, for example,
I wanna be able to get a monotone pattern.
This is a partial application
of our diamond pattern.
Purple pattern is partially applying
values to the diamond pattern thing.
In this case, it's locking in color1.
Is monotone a good name for that?
Probably not, but bear with me.
Okay, so similarly,
we're gonna have a fixed width pattern,
which is gonna lock in
the width value instead.
And then we're gonna have one
that makes a monotone and
fixed width pattern that
locks in two values.
So, your job is to make the tests pass,
I've already kind of called some
of these make pattern functions,
but your job is to define those functions,
and make sure that they
return functions that have those given
values locked in to the diamond pattern.
Let's take a moment and
stretch our functional muscles.
>> Anjana Vakil: In make monotone pattern,
we want to return a function.
So I'm gonna start you out with,
not anything useful, but
a little scaffolding.
This function,
what arguments is it gonna take?
>> Speaker 2: Color1 and width.
>> Anjana Vakil: It's gonna
take the rest of the stuff.
So this is gonna take in a color1,
and a width, and it's going to return?
>> Speaker 3: Diamond pattern.
>> Anjana Vakil: The application
of diamond pattern to color1,
but also our closed over value
color2,
>> Anjana Vakil: That is not
one of the arguments here, cuz it's locked
in by from our outer scope and our width.
A few of the tests are passing,
seems that the failures
are related to the rest of our functions,
so we are golden.
Let's keep going with
the fixed width pattern.
I'm just gonna
>> Anjana Vakil: Yank, and
how do we need to modify
what we did before?
I know y'all can do this [LAUGH], so
instead of taking in the color1 and
the width, we're going to take in-
>> Speaker 4: Color2.
>> Anjana Vakil: The color2 instead,
but same deal,
we're locking in one of the variables,
it's just changed, which one it is.
This is interesting point, so
I'm using these function keywords,
but we could also write this totally
validly with arrow functions,
and some corrections to our curly braces.
This is a personal choice,
if you prefer feeling like a fancy
one line code type of thing,
instead of using the function keyword and
the curly braces.
And again, I'm a big fan of error
functions, especially for functional
programming, because they make it really
clear that we're just returning a value.
So we could have written it that way, too.
So let's take this, and
let's try to use the same
principle to make our
monotone fixed width pattern,
which is gonna return a pattern
function that locks in two values and
takes in just the remaining value.
So this is gonna lock in both color2 and
width, and
we're gonna return a function that takes
in only color1 and closes over the others.
>> Anjana Vakil: We have our diamond
pattern, originally, it takes in three
different values, meaning it's a ternary
function, it takes three arguments.
And we've used that to make these
partial application functions,
a monotone pattern, a large pattern,
or a small pattern, or
what have you,
a small monotone pattern, etc.
So those are partially applied
versions of these that lock in those
values that we want to remember,
thanks to the notion of closure.